Core: Add settings API ("auto settings") for host.yaml (#1871)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: docs/settings api.md

# Archipelago Settings API

The settings API describes how to use installation-wide config and let the user configure them, like paths, etc. using
host.yaml. For the player settings / player yamls see [options api.md](options api.md).

The settings API replaces `Utils.get_options()` and `Utils.get_default_options()`
as well as the predefined `host.yaml` in the repository.

> For backwards compatibility with APWorlds, some interfaces are kept for now and will produce a warning when being used.

Author: In this version, you get a warning when loading a world that has no settings.
`warnings.warn(f"World {world_cls_name} does not define settings. Please consider upgrading the world.")`

In a future version there may be warnings for get_options() as well.

# Archipelago Settings API

The settings API describes how to use installation-wide config and let the user configure them, like paths, etc. using
host.yaml. For the player settings / player yamls see [options api.md](options api.md).

The settings API replaces `Utils.get_options()` and `Utils.get_default_options()`
as well as the predefined `host.yaml` in the repository.

For backwards compatibility with APWorlds, some interfaces are kept for now and will produce a warning when being used.

## Config File

Settings use options.yaml (manual override), if that exists, or host.yaml (the default) otherwise.
The files are searched for in the current working directory, if different from install directory, and in `user_path`,
which either points to the installation directory, if writable, or to %home%/Archipelago otherwise.

**Examples:**

> * C:\Program Data\Archipelago\options.yaml

Author: I don't touch filenames in this PR because migrating from one filename to another is gonna be easier once that's in and breaking someone's options.yaml will make sad faces.

* C:\Program Data\Archipelago\host.yaml
* path\to\code\repository\host.yaml
* ~/Archipelago/host.yaml

> With the new settings API, AP can update the config file and can create it with default values and comments,

Reviewer: I like the following wording a little bit better.

```suggestion
Using the settings API, AP can update the config file or create one with default values and comments, 
```

if it does not exist.

## Global Settings

All non-world-specific settings are defined directly in settings.py.
Each value needs to have a default. If the default should be `None`, define it as `typing.Optional` and assign `None`.

To access a "global" config value, with correct typing, use one of
```python
from settings import get_settings, GeneralOptions, FolderPath
from typing import cast

x = get_settings().general_options.output_path
y = cast(GeneralOptions, get_settings()["general_options"]).output_path
z = cast(FolderPath, get_settings()["general_options"]["output_path"])
```

## World Settings

Worlds can define the top level key to use by defining `settings_key: ClassVar[str]` in their World class.

> It defaults to `{folder_name}_options` if undefined, i.e. `worlds/factorio/...` defaults to `factorio_options`.

Reviewer 2: comma after i.e.

Reviewer: comma after i.e. (or e.g. for that matter) is usually optional and depend on which "fork" of English you use. They all agree one should precede it though, so I'm less concerned about this one.

Author: A quick search says that's a difference between American and British english. We had mostly BE in school, so not my fault :-D

Worlds define the layout of their config section using type annotation of the variable `settings` in the class.
The type has to inherit from `settings.Group`. Each value in the config can have a comment by subclassing a builtin

> type. Some helper types are defined `settings.py`, see [Types](#Types) for a list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type has to inherit from `settings.Group`. Each value in the config can have a comment by subclassing a built-in
type. Some helper types are defined in `settings.py`, see [Types](#Types) for a list.
```

> type. Some helper types are defined `settings.py`, see [Types](#Types) for a list.

Author: I was referring to python `builtins`. The doc page for `builtins` calls it "built-in objects", so we should probably follow that doc style? Your suggestion did not select the correct lines, by the way.

> The type has to inherit from `settings.Group`. Each value in the config can have a comment by subclassing a builtin
> type. Some helper types are defined `settings.py`, see [Types](#Types) for a list.

Author: ```suggestion
The type has to inherit from `settings.Group`. Each value in the config can have a comment by subclassing a built-in
type. Some helper types are defined in `settings.py`, see [Types](#Types) for a list.```
